David Ambler: How many of you guys have? Either ray other than the tech stars? You know, docs and money.
David Ambler: How many you guys either started thinking about raising, or raised or gotten to the point of.
David Ambler: you know, deciding safe versus price round, etc.
Alex Nativelle: No issue.
David Ambler: Yeah. Okay.
David Ambler: Alright. Well, we have a short presentation, which I think is helpful to go through
David Ambler: and.
Chloe Lannert: And actually.
David Ambler: Cover this.
Chloe Lannert: Pick on people a little bit more, so can I ask each of you for, like, have you raised any money before techstars
Chloe Lannert: safe or priced round for your next round, and like the approximate timeline of when you're thinking about
Chloe Lannert: a raise, if at all.
Alex Nativelle: I can go if you want so we have not raised any money. And we are thinking about it, for like maybe January 2026 or a bit later.
Alex Nativelle: So not in the near future.
Chloe Lannert: And you'll be on on safes right.
Alex Nativelle: That I don't know.
Chloe Lannert: Fun.
Alex Nativelle: I would say.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Alex Nativelle: More price, right now.
David Ambler: We we can.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, let's say we're gonna raise lots of money, and so not safe.
Alex Nativelle: I don't know.
Chloe Lannert: Alright Andrew, can I pick on you next.
Andrew Fernandes: We raise them taking some angel checks on saves we're gonna raise, probably in the next 3 months or so.
Andrew Fernandes: Cool.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: The same here as well like in next 3 months. So my name is Smail from Optifab. So this is the goal that we have.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: We already raised another 100 k. From a place I call forum ventures. I don't know if you know the place
Esmaeil Sadeghi: that's also supporting, like b 2 b Sas as well. So that's our experience with safe in the past.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: That's.
Chloe Lannert: Chris! Viv, do you wanna jump in?
Chloe Lannert: I don't know if y'all are in a spot where you could talk.
Chris Wong: Yeah, sorry. I'm like getting a bite in between.
Chris Wong: But yeah, planning to raise, probably in 3, 6 months. Is a plan? But yeah, familiar, familiar with safes.
Chris Wong: and so forth. But yeah.
Chloe Lannert: And any previous checks. Chris.
Chris Wong: No, not at the moment.
Chloe Lannert: Good alright.
Chloe Lannert: and then looks like Viv. Probably can't talk right now. Extra note from Antoine for brio. They're incorporated in France. They have access to debt funding and government backed Bpi.
David Ambler: John, right? Okay.
Chloe Lannert: Rock and roll.
David Ambler: sounds good, Mike. Maybe I'll I'll skip kind of what does it say? For a second we come back to it. I just want to show a little bit about this sort of
David Ambler: say versus price round, maybe just to give people a little perspective. So I'm sure most of you have seen the card of data. This is sort of the most recent cut at it, which
David Ambler: there's a lot going on in the slide. If you've not seen it before, but effectively. What this is saying is that if you're raising less than 2.5 million dollars, you probably have done a safe if you're using carta. And, as you know, obviously, many of you know, Card has gotten more and more market share over the years. So I think anecdotally. This is also our perspective. I mean, it used to be 5, 10 years ago. Even that
David Ambler: we were. There was some battle between, you know. Should we do price round a convertible? No, to safe? There was other instruments. Kiss and others and safes have really taken over.
David Ambler: and the data shows you like, you know, basically, almost all companies have raised on a safe compared to other choices here. If they're raising less than 2 and a half, I think, as you, as you go above that number. And and really, even as you approach 2 to 2 and a half.
David Ambler: I mean one thing that's interesting for you all to do, and Carta has a tool for this. We can help you with this which we will do for free for techstars. Companies just kind of helping you model. What's more dilutive, the reality is the reason they're sort of around 2 to 2 and a half is as you start to scale and raise more on safes.
David Ambler: they become much more dilutive. And the next slide goes into a little bit of the dilution, and sorry to hit you with data right off the bat that you haven't seen. But as you'll see, you know, under 250 K. The Median dilutions are percent and a half. It says under 5, next to the big blue box. But that's that's not usually the case, for under 2 52 50 to 500 is around 5% dilution.
David Ambler: And you can see it kind of scale up here as as we go up. Just, you know, as an example, you know. Obviously, seed rounds are larger and we'll get. We have data on that which we'll get to in a little bit. But you know, seed rounds are around 20% dilution. That's kind of been the market norm like since the beginning of time. I mean, you know the like. The investors that we work with, and I work with light speed and benchmark, and many others, and Mike's done
David Ambler: hundreds and hundreds of deals himself as well over the years, but they usually don't do a check for under 20%. Obviously, that's assuming they take the whole round.
David Ambler: So states are really meant for smaller rounds. Obviously it's less dilution. But if you're working with an instrument, possibly from an investor who's not institutional or or is giving you terms that are different to this on a as converted basis in terms of dilution. You probably know you're working outside of what market norm is. Obviously, every sector is a little bit different. Every company is a little bit different.
David Ambler: But this gives you a good benchmark to kind of understand? Like, okay, fine. I'm gonna go raise like, how much should I raise if it is a safe? I know I want to be quick, easy, and fast. I don't want to pay my lawyers a bunch of money and then negotiate docs over 8 weeks. Obviously, safes are are much cheaper. But this gives you a decent perspective.
David Ambler: Mike, and maybe I'll flip back and then have you kind of start out just kind of quickly. Walk through kind of what safe are. And
David Ambler: yeah, how to think about it.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, for sure. And I'm I'm also like, I'm a pretty even though the the stats say otherwise. I'm a pretty big advocate of really simple price rounds in lieu of safes. So safes have their place, I think, in like early stage financings. But you know, you can raise a million bucks or 2 million bucks on a price round. If you just keep the docs really lean, and you know you might be looking at more like $1520,000 in legal fees, instead of like
Mike Pestana: like a few $1,000 in legal fees. But safes can be a pain when they convert. You know you have to go out and get a bunch of people to sign up to the documents. People might be slow. Angel investors are sort of off the grid and that can hold up your your price round when you when you do have one. It also can
Mike Pestana: relieve the bigger concern which is like what we're we're gonna talk about here, which is like the uncertainty with, like, how much solution is being caused by the safes, something you'd have to model out ahead of time and something that's like a moving target. As you raise more safes. So the big takeaway from that is like, if you are interested in a really early price round for like a million bucks, or something that is doable with like reasonable legal fees. And there are benefits to that.
David Ambler: Yep.
Mike Pestana: yeah, in terms of like, what is a safe? And how does it work? So you're probably familiar with generally what it is. So a safe is specifically not a convertible note, but it acts in the same way. So, like a few decades ago, we only use convertible notes at the early stages, and that was like an actual loan to the company that would convert into equity on a price round
Mike Pestana: Downside was that had an interest rate. And then there are certain like local requirements with respect to being like a lender that people mostly disregarded. But both those things cause kind of headaches for investors and the company.
Mike Pestana: The other part of it, too, is that notes were highly negotiated. There wasn't like a standardized version of the notes, so it took forever to do one. The safes, on the other hand, are extremely standardized auto. Just print them offline and sign them
Mike Pestana: They work about the same. But the key differences are one. It's not debt. It's actually a security unto itself that converts into a preferred stock of the company at your price round, and there's no interest, rate, or maturity date on it, so a safe can in theory stay outstanding forever if you never do a price round.
David Ambler: Yeah, Andrew, do you have a question? By the way.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah, you said, I just wanna make sure I understand your previous point about saves kind of kicking the can down the road. If I am interpreting this right? It's gonna require more
Andrew Fernandes: legwork, paperwork and some fees when they convert later. Is that right?
Mike Pestana: Yeah, that's right. So like in my experience, like a lot of people are raised like, let's say, 1020, safe or something. When you do your price round your series seed, you're gonna have to go get signatures from those safe holders. Now, technically, the safes automatically convert. So you can make the argument to your cash investors saying like, Well, they automatically convert, why do I have to worry about this?
Mike Pestana: But the downside is, there's there's ambiguity, and whether they're actually bound by the financing documents and some of the particular provisions in there.
Mike Pestana: if they don't sign, even though they're obligated to sign. So the net net of that is that you end up having to go out and getting those 10 safe holder signatures when you close the price round and like inevitably one or 2 people are like in Africa, or like, you know, on a boat, and you can't reach them, and it becomes hard to track them down. So that's why I say, like it is, it can be more of an administrative hassle to have a bunch of safes outstanding.
Andrew Fernandes: And if you can't, you need physical signatures for these.
Mike Pestana: No, you can do it by docusign.
Andrew Fernandes: And if let's say, like 4 out of your 5 stakeholders sign, and one doesn't, what happens.
Mike Pestana: So a lot of people just close over it. So your lead investor for your seed around may just say, Wow, it's maybe like a $1020,000 safe like, who cares? Let's just close, anyway. It's a small amount of risk. But there are some investors who will say, no, you have to go out and get that signature, and I've never seen a company not close because of a signature on a safe. But I've seen things get delayed, and a delay is is, you know.
Mike Pestana: also bad.
Andrew Fernandes: And what exactly is that risk? Is it a risk that, like your your stakeholders gonna come back and sue you, or something because they haven't signed on to the conversion.
Mike Pestana: Yeah. So like the the nitty gritty of it is like, a good example is like the what's called drag along provision, the voting agreement, so like when you sign up to a price round, you'll have this provision that says that a subset of the stockholders can drag the boat of the other subset of stockholders. In a single transaction. If you receive majority consent.
Mike Pestana: it's arguable that that safe holder is not actually bound by that drag along. If they don't sign what's called the voting agreement.
Mike Pestana: the additional background of that is inside the safe. They're obligated to actually sign the financing documents, so you can sort of take them to court and say, Hey, you have to sign this document, and then, once you sign it, the drag is enforceable. But, as you can imagine, that's a huge pain.
David Ambler: Exactly.
Andrew Fernandes: Got it? Thanks.
David Ambler: Maybe just to hit hit a couple of topics on this page. I mean, I think, for for those who are familiar this is probably one on one. But there's obviously a couple of ways these States convert. They don't convert at the price that the seed investors pay. They converted a discount to that price.
David Ambler: I will say, even investors, that I work with a lot sometimes mistake kind of what the what the purpose is of a discount versus valuation cap. I always think of a percentage discount is really downside protection, and the valuation cap is really upside protection for the investor. So if you have, you know you were going to do a round at, you know, 10 million bucks. But, like man, you guys killed it. And now you're going to do a round
David Ambler: at 250, pre. Having to convert having the valuation cap, and there is really kind of protection from them from that runaway upside versus the percentage discount like. No matter what happens, they're always getting a discount. Let's just say it goes down from what their expectations are. They're still getting a discount relative to the seed investors, because they obviously took on more risk. So the valuation cap is sometimes, you'll see, saves that. Just say.
David Ambler: you know, it's just the valuation cap. Funny enough, like if you I've seen safe drafted where, let's say, the valuation cap you set in a safe at 10 million. The rounds are like 6 million. Well do they convert to 10? Sometimes the safes actually say that which is good for the company. Investors don't like that. Obviously it should say the lower of whatever the conversion price is pursuant to the cap and the round price. But I'd say it's less and less common to see both of these in here. You sometimes do see it. Valuation cap, at least. From my perspective, Mike, I see a lot more.
Mike Pestana: Oh, yeah, I think if you look at the stats valuation caps for like early investors are like, I mean, it's gotta be like 90% plus like, especially from like institutional investors. It's probably like a hundred percent.
Mike Pestana: Because, you know, if you were investor right, you want to know how much or what percentage you're going to get on conversion, which is which is good for the investor. And you know, maybe slightly worse, for the company. Sometimes percentage discounts actually work out to be better than valuation caps at the early stage. But I think we find that, like, you know, most valuation caps 5, 10 million dollars like it's pretty rare to raise a price around below these early stage valuation caps. So
Mike Pestana: usually the discount which only applies at the
Mike Pestana: the valuation of the price round is lower than the valuation cap. Usually those discounts just kind of get disregarded.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: I'd say another way, as we go to just go back to this or go to the dilution data per second. I get we get asked a lot like Well, what should the valuation cap be right like somebody told me 10. Somebody told me 1215. Should I ask for 15,
David Ambler: like, I think I'm going to raise this, but if I get a worse, should I raise less? Right? There's there's that question that comes up all the time. I mean, the reality is, card has data on that, and we can send you as much data as you like. But I think you should ground yourself in dilution, right? Like, if somebody's just saying Well, we think it should be. Just look at the data and figure out what the dilution is going to be. And if the dilutions outside the scope of the median like.
David Ambler: you know, unless they're one standard deviation from the mean away, I think you've got legs to go argue for whatever you think is fair. I mean, sometimes you just feel like I don't care what the data says it should be X, and it rubs both ways. But you know, I'd say definitely, pay attention to what dilution is before you get too deep.
Mike Pestana: I mean, that's the biggest that's by far. The biggest mistake that we see is that in these post money valuation caps, you know, you put like a 5 million dollar post money cap on it, and as you raise more money, your effective Pre money cap, meaning the the capital that actually converts that keeps going down. So if you have a post money valuation cap of 5 million. But you've raised a million dollars. But now your pre money cap
Mike Pestana: is 4 million, because on a post money basis, when it converts, it's going to be 5 million. Now, let's say you raise 2 million. Your company should be more valuable. That's not how the safe works, though
Mike Pestana: your pre money valuation in that case goes down to 3 million. So you see, as you raise more money, it's the opposite of what you would expect. You don't become more valuable, you become less, and that's why a lot of lawyers really hate saves.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: and we can. I want to get to that, too. In a second. I mean, there's sort of like the pre money versus post money discussion like there's like some blog posts out there, people saying, Oh, it should go back to Pre. Money and post money is not fair, and you know, for those who don't know like Yc. Used to be pre money, I think the reality is like you can argue for whatever you're going to argue for the market is a move to post money saves, and there are arguments that go both ways.
David Ambler: and we've modeled this before for companies in terms of like what's beneficial. The reality is like there's always going to be triggers that change the result that you don't know. Like, for instance, the post money safe, you know, if the round option pool size is 10% versus 15% has a massive change
David Ambler: on, you know, what's more beneficial relative to the pre money safe? So in any event, this is all comes down to modeling. I wouldn't read blog posts too closely. I'd follow the market. Look at solution. Come up with what's right for you. But just know that's out there.
David Ambler: I'd say the other thing just hit this the last 2 things. Here, Mike, maybe you cover amendment thresholds, and I'll do Mfn, you sometimes will see Mfn in there and like. Sometimes this is sector specific. I see this come up constantly in Fintech and Web 3 with Mfns, just for whatever reason. Usually side letters get highly negotiated there, too. But for those who aren't familiar. Basically, this says that if you do another safe round
David Ambler: after the initial close, there's better terms, ie. Valuation cap.
David Ambler: that they can also get the benefit of those terms. So just be wary of that, I'd say that's just less common for a company that's sort of like early doing well during their 1st raise. If somebody's asking for this like sure. Can you get it? Absolutely? I don't think it's certainly not automatic, and I'd be wary of it.
David Ambler: Mike, do you want to hit the memo threshold just quick.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I mean, usually, you try to get them together. So
Mike Pestana: you try to have a 50% amendment threshold of your entire group of safe holders. So sometimes safe holders will say, like, you can't amend my safe without my specific consent. That individual investor ideally. What you want to say is.
Mike Pestana: it's a majority of all investors based on the dollars they invested. So if you raise a million bucks and they have, you know, $500,001 invested, they have over 50% control. They control amendments for all of the safes. The reason you do that is it, mimics preferred stock in which usually a majority of the preferred stockholders vote together to make any changes to the preferred stock.
Mike Pestana: So you'll see this change quite often with institutional investors. Honestly, you probably accept it. If it's a big sort of lead style investor. But for smaller guys you should push back and be like, no, I'm not going to give them an individual blocking right on amendments.
David Ambler: Yup, Mike, do you wanna hit save stacking where I can cover too. First.st
Mike Pestana: I, yeah, I mean, so safe stacking is like, we have different valuation caps on on safes where you stack them together. So you start at 4 million, you go to 8 million, go to 10 million. You have these caps at, you know, different levels that can be beneficial. In the sense that you know later, cap safes they convert at a higher dollar value. So if you buy a safe at 8 million post money valuation, you're getting less for your dollar than if you bought it a 1 million post money valuation.
Mike Pestana: The tricky part with safe stacking is that
Mike Pestana: if you don't modify the safes
Mike Pestana: appropriately. All the safes that you stack together will be counted against all the valuation caps so like, for example, on like a 1 money valuation cap.
Mike Pestana: If you keep upping your valuation, you're like, oh, I'm raising 4 million now at 8 million post money valuation cap safe. And you had that initial 1 million cap. Well, now that initial 1 million cap safe is broken, and the reason it's broken is because
Mike Pestana: a 1 million post money valuation cap will deduct the entire amount that you raise under all safes, unless you modify the safe.
Mike Pestana: That means that the valuation cap and the price per share on conversion is below 0. It's negative. So it's just broken safe
Mike Pestana: this happens all the time. So you can modify the safes to make this work. Basically, what you do is you say that
Mike Pestana: the safes as a group sort of the 1 million cap saves the 4 million caps attend. Only the dollars raised under those particular saves, as a group will get counted against the post money valuation cap of that group
Mike Pestana: that works. But it's kind of complicated. And you have to actually have somebody draft that the better solution is just to be conscious of either. If you're gonna stack saves using a pre money valuation cap instead of a post is a lot better, because there's no deduction for the dollars. You raise it more, more or less mimics a preferred stock round or just don't stack because it can become messy. Basically.
David Ambler: Yeah. And even outside of kind of breaking the model. Even if the math works, I find that even really smart founders, when I get on the phone with them. And they're like, all right, I did one out of 15 now, I'm doing at 30, and then a 50, and they're like going up every time the reality is, it's really hard to model what the dilution actually is. And I've definitely seen founders give way more of their company away than they intended to, just because they haven't figured out exactly how to do the math. And they haven't modeled it correctly, like I've seen people
David Ambler: give away 40% of their company before the seed round. Just not thinking clearly about this. So I'd just be really careful as you stack safe, even though in your mind it's like, Oh, I just doubled the valuation. It's it can be. It can be painful.
Ankur Toshniwal: What is what is so complex about the map.
Ankur Toshniwal: isn't it? Just like a percentage of the valuation cap at a Max? And then you just do it per
Ankur Toshniwal: like if you if you're if you if you're getting 50 K. At.
Ankur Toshniwal: you know, 5 million post money, and then you get 100 K at 10 million. Valuation right like
Ankur Toshniwal: these are. But they're both one like, you know.
Ankur Toshniwal: that that could just. Is there something like the math behind that? Is it like really complicated beyond that? Or is that is that's really it. Right?
Ankur Toshniwal: It's not the percentage.
David Ambler: Yeah, it's not that. It's that complicated. I just think it's hard to track it as you go along, right. And and to my point. If you haven't modified the safe to say that the valuation caps track to each other, and you have separate series of safes, converting with like series a dash, you know, a prime, a 2, a 3, a 4. If you raise on valuation caps it just it's something that gets overlooked. I'll put it that way.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, like, where people get tripped up is like, let's say, you raise on a 1 million cap, and then you raise like a 4 million cap like.
Mike Pestana: if you raised
Mike Pestana: 2 million bucks under that 4 million cap, you give away, you've given away 50% of the company.
Ankur Toshniwal: Oh, yeah, what the who's doing that? Oh, my God! This is horror story!
Mike Pestana: Yeah. And then you'll.
Ankur Toshniwal: Oh, man!
Mike Pestana: Cap is potentially broken, too, in that scenario. So like.
Mike Pestana: even yeah. So even if you don't break them out, it's really so we'll sometimes we'll see like 50 saves like, and there'll be a different caps, and that's like
Mike Pestana: it's really almost impossible for a founder to know how much of the company they own both. So but that problem basically is like, you just gotta model it, you know, or have, like Paul Hastings, model it for you ideally.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: I'd say, the other thing that you know, you go to Yc's website, or you get the safe right? And you're like, all right. Well, here's the safe. Here's a side letter outside letter like that. Seems simple enough. The reality is. There's lots of side letters getting negotiated now in safe rounds. I've seen actually, like companies spend $20,000 negotiating side letters with investors like multiple rounds over multiple weeks, negotiating what the right should be to Mike's Point earlier on like, should you have just done a price round?
David Ambler: You know, investors are looking for things you might otherwise see in the in the seed, financing documents, including information rights.
David Ambler: Obviously board observer rights come up a lot pro router rights, which is already, you know, a standard for
David Ambler: for the Yc forms. But you know any dilution protection I've seen recently. You know certain covenants, things that you can. You can't do without their consent. Again, like these are things that would not have been in the safe, and was not originally intended to be in safe and as safe rounds have gotten larger. We have seen investors ask for things that would only usually be asked for in price rounds. So
David Ambler: I just be wary of that. It's another thing to kind of flush out with your investors in advance, and like, what are the expectations? If you heard the word standard side letter like that means nothing right. So I would just be wary of that, as you're comparing term sheets and talking to investors. And
David Ambler: not that you want to make it about legal. But again, like, if you're expecting the safe round to get done in 2 weeks and cost you 5,000 bucks, and they have some crazy side letter. It might be 6 weeks, and it might be 25,000 bucks, which is just annoying, for
David Ambler: we're founders to have to deal with right, and I've seen it with sophisticated funds isn't just, you know, small investors who don't know what they're doing so. And in fact, it's quite the opposite.
David Ambler: Mike, I don't know if you had anything else to add on this one.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, the standard side letter is always a fun one, like people would be like, Oh, we can close tomorrow is our standard side letter, and they'll have, like, you know, 4 pages of like standard side letter stuff. So like, yeah, just want to be careful, like, I actually think like smart if I represented.
Mike Pestana: which I sometimes do like seed investors, I actually do try to get them perpetual parador rights, and like, maybe for like a really good seed investor. That's okay. But there are things like that that you might want to modify or think about. There's also like ongoing reporting stuff. That sounds reasonable when you're small, but at scale is like insane things like, Oh, you know our Kpi reporting every month, or something on some sort of metrics. And you know, when you're a smaller company. It's not a big deal.
Mike Pestana: You have a hundred stockholders, and you're at scale.
Mike Pestana: It becomes kind of crazy. So there are just things to think about. Yeah, the early stages.
David Ambler: Down.
Chloe Lannert: Real quick, Antoine, do you want to jump in with your question?
antoinecarriere: Ha happy to, but but then I'll I'll start with another one. We are all
antoinecarriere: we have that side later from textiles. Because we're all kind of textiles company at this at this point. And so should we just kind of use that as the template. Hey, we're already. This is the and extend the textiles rights, for example, the information rights to other investors coming in. Isn't that the simple and easy way to do it.
David Ambler: You, you would think so. Yeah, you usually it doesn't work. Usually everyone has their own form. I mean, you can try to, you know, like, here's what you think you. You can try to put people on a new form.
David Ambler: If you're negotiating a new round. But the reality is, most folks are either gonna have their own or they're gonna certainly want to negotiate it.
antoinecarriere: Okay.
antoinecarriere: And so then, for my my question, my.
antoinecarriere: it's kind of the so the convertible note question. So right now same thing, we are all kind of takes us company of the of the of a batch where the investment was at a convertible note, and not the safe and and believe that everyone took the convertible notes in the in the batch. But maybe not.
antoinecarriere: Which means that kind of that hypothetical situation. Is not that hypothetical where you could, you could you could you could. You could be in a situation assuming you're barely profitable or profitable.
antoinecarriere: Where? And you're not raising right away, because that convertible note has a 2 year duration we could be like 2 years from now. In the middle of closing around
antoinecarriere: and and had a valuation cap of 3 million. I believe. I I don't remember correctly, but let's call it the 3 million, and let's call it for the sake of the discussion, relatively low. Let's say that the the valuation that you're closing your ground at is more like 5 to 10 million. What do you? What do you do.
antoinecarriere: or what do you advise with the that- that company to.
Mike Pestana: So what I heard is like, the valuation is 3 million. It's relatively low, and you're going into a price round
antoinecarriere: At 5, let's say.
Mike Pestana: At 5. Okay? And and then what? What's the objective with the with the convertible.
antoinecarriere: I mean the convertible. You could. You could convert it.
antoinecarriere: and then you will give equity at a 3 million cap
antoinecarriere: or you could reimburse the convertible
antoinecarriere: loan, wait for the wait for the for the expiration date, reimburse it, and have your price round. That was kind of let's say it was planned on March 30, th and you're going to have your price round happen on April 10.th
antoinecarriere: And now you've kind of you've avoided the the dilution.
antoinecarriere: and textile is happy because it's founder friendly and they already have, like a 6% with the the initial investment. But they're kind of they're a little bumped to some extent because they but they understand because they want what's best for the founders.
David Ambler: Yeah, I'd say what you're describing, just ignoring what the tech stars note says for a second, what you're describing would be very unusual. Most investors, if we're just sitting down today and writing a convertible note from scratch would never give the company the option to pay them back in cash like. That's a huge loss for them.
David Ambler: so most will say that they they have the choice, but you do not.
David Ambler: and so they would have the option to convert into equity.
David Ambler: But they.
antoinecarriere: I have to continue.
antoinecarriere: but but the the convertible note from textiles I I kind of maybe I misread the the legalese that we signed, but I do believe that has an expiration date. That is 2 years, and so for the 2 years they have the option to convert.
antoinecarriere: But after the 2 years you are, the company are obligated to reimburse.
antoinecarriere: And and you're not.
antoinecarriere: Yeah. When yeah.
David Ambler: Yeah. When when convertible notes mature, I mean, this happens. A lot seems to happen all the time, like people are like, Hey, it's expiring. What do we do? It's mature. Do we pay it back like, are we like? Are they gonna sue us?
David Ambler: Can they take our assets like what happens most of the time. We just leave them out there like nothing happens. Right? The reality is, the investor is not going to sue you because it's mature, and you haven't paid them back or converted it, and you're not going to do anything. And so we just let them hang. Sometimes you'd go to the effort to extend the expiration date. And then companies that are growth stage companies. We would, in fact, use that as a little bit of a hammer to like, hey? We'll extend it by 6 months, but then we may try to extract some value. And
David Ambler: so it's a conversation. I mean, the safes don't have that same issue, which is another reason people like them. But the reality is like, it just depends on what the document says. It'd be pretty unusual to to do that. I mean, you could. We can talk separately about the tech stars. Now, I don't really want to debate that on this call. But I think the reality is, most of them. Don't say that, and the expectation would be that you would convert them or extend it if you felt the need to. Usually at the very early stage. You don't bother Mike. I don't know if you have other thoughts.
Mike Pestana: Yeah. So I'd say a little more color on it.
Mike Pestana: So I don't know. Yeah, I know I I haven't read the techstars note in detail, so I don't know I'm happy to look at it. But yeah, I mean a standard note that I would draft would would say that even if you hit the maturity date, repayment requires consent of the investor. For this exact reason. The other thing is like practically like again, not with respect to techstar specifically, or if we're talking about any investor like, it would pretty much blow that relationship. And, like most Vc investors at this stage, won't want to see that happen.
Mike Pestana: and maybe the 3rd thing is, I actually have. I have had a client get sued over a maturity date one time for $25,000, and an important thing to keep in mind is that usually the notes are amendable by a majority consent of all the note holders.
Mike Pestana: But if you go past the maturity date. California courts, at least in this case, held that it had to be amended by the individual note holder which is important for repayment. So again, that's why convertible notes are less optimal sometimes for investors and for founders depending on the circumstances.
antoinecarriere: That's that's helpful. I am just kind of the the reason why I'm asking about that is, I do believe this is the situation that pretty much. All dispatch and all the tech start companies to date are in. And I get your point around like the whole
antoinecarriere: the the point is not too much is not so much to trick the system. It's just kind of to to. I do understand that pretty much companies that have hit that that expiration window are either dead or or or no. Nobody cares at this point in time, although there's legal is that says that you need to to pay back.
antoinecarriere: I'm just kind of a I do.
antoinecarriere: I do want the
antoinecarriere: given. The fact that a lot of the companies this time around are already revenue, generating at the time that they get the the text, our money.
antoinecarriere: if that might not be something that that might happen.
antoinecarriere: And I just I just don't.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, I I won't. I won't bother you more on that. I'd love to
antoinecarriere: think about that more at some point.
David Ambler: Back to
David Ambler: go back to Safe or the Nvca. Financing docs. Anyone else have any questions on safe before we move on to
David Ambler: Nvca.
Mike Pestana: I think that was it for the chat.
David Ambler: Cool, Mike, do you want to start out on this one.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, sure.
David Ambler: I'll flip the slide.
Mike Pestana: Yeah. So you can see valuation premium for AI. This is why a lot of times lawyers and investors will tell you like you should have an AI story, even if you're not like an AI company per se, and like, you can kind of spin your product a little. AI heavy because in the last couple of years, you know, there's been an AI premium. I actually think this is completely
Mike Pestana: my own read and gut feeling. I think the AI premium is going to reverse soon enough, like maybe not immediately. But the oversaturation of AI companies in the market may actually work to the detriment of AI valuations, where kind of like we saw with like Web 3, and crypto, where we everyone wanted like a web. 3 story. It was like boosting valuations in like 20 and 21 the inverse happened to where? Then, if you mentioned Web 3 in like 2,023 people were like.
Mike Pestana: you know, we don't want to hear that, basically. So a little, this is like marketing over substance. But you know, there also are like very genuine AI companies that have a good AI story. So you know, it's food for thought mostly.
David Ambler: Yep.
David Ambler: and I think the data speaks for itself. I mean, obviously, if you just slap AI on any company name, it doesn't work. But you know, for for those of you that are in tech source program, if you're claiming AI, it's usually application layer, usually not foundation layer at this point, and, you know, really tackling the issue. As compared to like, I'm doing some Ipos for companies who are like a cyber security company, for instance, and they're trying to tack on AI to the platform. But it's really not the core function. It's not AI native. So
David Ambler: it's certainly different versus AI, native cool.
Ankur Toshniwal: Can I? Can? I ask something? Okay. So I hear the term a lot. And I don't really know what non
Ankur Toshniwal: like non technical engineers, or like people think, what does AI native mean to you?
Ankur Toshniwal: What do you? How do in your mind? How do you? What do you think the distinction is? Yeah.
David Ambler: I would say, AI, native is like all. Let me let me answer in the negative first.st So like a company that was, let's say you're a staff security company and you secure you know. Office 3, 65.
David Ambler: Your core function is to go in and set you know controls over how people access office 365 in an environment right? Your posture management. And you might have you know, let's just say you're 4 year, 4 years in you have no AI, and then now you have some AI function. The AI function might be a chat so like how you engage with posture management functions.
David Ambler: It might be you know, helping you figure out what what alerts are, and you know, maybe reducing the amount of alerts or categorizing them. Better so. I wouldn't consider that to be an AI native company like that's really a co-pilot, if you will.
David Ambler: To me like AI. Native is your, you know, fine tuning llama with proprietary data or you know custom instructions, and, like your true function, is to, you know, use Gen. AI or something, some derivation thereof to go generate revenue. So there's there's no sort of like absent AI. Put it this way, absent AI like there is no company right versus. If I strip that from a cyber company, does that feel right?
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, that's all right. Cool. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Mike Pestana: I also think it's a great question for anyone in any vertical to be like, ask like a non technical person, what they think, what you're saying means, because, like a lot of these, these will be like, they'll say they're technical, or they have like a mit degree from like 20 years ago, and like they haven't really used it. And like, it's important. What like the average person, the average like educated person thinks about your product and your slogan and what you're selling and stuff they can like reasonably understand it. I think that's like a good like benchmark, for like, are you marketing it correctly?
David Ambler: Cool.
David Ambler: Mike, do you wanna take kind of quick overview? We don't have to cover every one of these rights, but.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I'd say, yeah, dividends. Most tech companies won't worry about those. So they're public. So okay, disregard basically, dividends will be issued. The board approves, and but they're equal among preferred stockholders and common stockholders. Occasionally you see something like an 8% dividend right for preferred stockholders. If you see that ask your lawyers to take it out. Liquidation preference. This is the one we probably all know about. So the investors get paid back the better of
Mike Pestana: usually one times their investment, so their original investment amount or and not, and but or
Mike Pestana: they get to convert to common stock and participate with the founders in liquidity situation. So if you sell the company, let's say you invested a million bucks and you sold the company, and the resulting proceeds were $500,000. All those proceeds would go to pay back the investors or liquidation preference, which was a million dollars. On the other hand, if your proceeds were something like 5 million dollars in a liquidation. Preference was a million. Well, now they're better off. Had they converted a common stock? Probably
Mike Pestana: because the proceeds will probably be higher to the the preferred stockholders and their liquidation preference. So it's what's also referred to as their downside protection. If you don't beat their original valuation
Mike Pestana: anti dilution protections. If you do a down round, there's a kind of a complex formula to how the preferred stockholders end up with more shares of stock. In practice, it's actually not more shares per se. It's more shares on conversion. But that's a technical point. Basically, just think, anti dilution means that in a down round your investors get more ownership
Mike Pestana: per rata rights means the right to buy stock in the future. Financing. Usually it's tied to their percentage ownership prior to that particular financing. So if they had 5% of the series seed going into the series, a, they have 5% per rata right? But then you fast forward to the series, either per router rights probably diluted down to something much lower. And it's that that diluted per router right into the series. Either they could take
Mike Pestana: so it can change over time. Registration rights are the force registration of the stock on a public market don't really need to worry about that. The early stages, or somebody can talk to lawyers about
Mike Pestana: broadcast refusal and secondary transfers. This is important for founders in particular, because it relates to your stock, so
Mike Pestana: your common stock will have 2 right of 1st refusals on it. This is respect to selling it one. If you try to sell your stock to a 3rd party, the company will have the right to buy the stock ahead of that 3rd party at the same price per share and 2. If the company says no, the investors and usually just the major investors.
Mike Pestana: will have the right to buy that stock ahead. A 3rd party. There's a reflexive right known as the co-sale right. That is the right of an existing stockholder, like an investor to sell part of their shares in your transaction.
Mike Pestana: Which means, if you sold a million shares and they own 5% of the company stock, they can sell
Mike Pestana: 50,000 shares in that transaction which would come off of your 1 million something like that. But
Mike Pestana: usually 90% plus in secondary transactions. The stockholders waive those rights
Mike Pestana: reporting is like financial statements for the most part. Usually it's on a quarterly basis and one on the annual basis at our stage. It's going to be unaudited. As you scale the audited financial statements inspection rights are similar. This is it's sort of an add on it's a contractual. Add on to the Delaware default rights which gives every stockholder the right to review the company's books and records is what they call it the contractual right there removes the threshold. Question of whether they have a proper purpose to do the inspection, which is a Delaware
Mike Pestana: kind of technical question. Most major investors get inspection rights, but smaller investors may not.
Mike Pestana: The board. Just you know how many directors you have usually at this stage, you know, kind of the 1st price round we'd like to see 3 board members, one of which is the investor, 2 of which are the common stockholders and voting is usually just one to one
Mike Pestana: for preferred and common stock. But your preferred stockholders often have blocking rights like when you raise more money, you might have to get a majority of your investors to consent, or if you sell the company, there are a few other things that are common.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: I'd say to just maybe a couple of high level points on the board, I mean, Mike mentioned one board seat for the investors, and 2 for common. If you find yourself in a situation where you're either losing outright control or investors are getting the same amount of votes on the board as a common. That's usually a big red flag for me like you should not be giving up control like affirmative control on the board in your 1st price round. That's something I sometimes hear like, Oh, there's a Co. Lead investor. We each want a board seat. There's 2 founders. Are you cool with
David Ambler: 2, 2, and one so like an independent director, I view that as giving up control.
David Ambler: I would resist that if I were you guys, that's something to navigate a little bit as you start to get into conversations like well in advance, because you can kind of get pushed into that a little bit as you advance negotiations, especially if you're kind of advancing them independently. But that's definitely a big red flag. I'd say, too, on dual class versus single voting.
David Ambler: We get asked a lot like we've done it enough. Mike and I just did a dual class financing. Obviously, that's case by case you all aware of generally what it is, is sort of super voting shares. We I, Mary, who couldn't join like we just did an AI financing with dual class
David Ambler: for serial founder. So it definitely is something that comes up. If anyone's interested in exploring that, happy to happy to discuss it.
Mike Pestana: Yeah. The other one, I'm kind of unrelated dual class is like what we get questions about founders preferred stock and what that means. Basically like a tax benefit to you. Set up an initial formation of the company. It's kind of gone out of style a little bit, but we still see founders asking about it. So that's another one I probably throw on there.
David Ambler: Yeah, although I tend to think that's a bit of a waste of time. I mean, we we there are some law firms are still kind of pushing it to have the founders preferred where your comment converts to preferred stock into financing, so that investors get a tax benefit or founders also get a tax benefit from that. The reality is, you don't really need to do it. It's sort of salesy at this point to push it. If you have it great if you, if you don't have it, I wouldn't let anybody tell you you have to do it. But yeah, agreed
David Ambler: cool. Yeah, we? There's a lot we can cover. I don't know would be helpful for folks if this is like now getting boring, or if, like, folks have high level questions on like how to approach investors, or what we're seeing, but happy to cover docs, too, or
David Ambler: whatever you think would be helpful.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, I'll I'll let the the founders
Chloe Lannert: drive from here. What what isn't making sense?
Chloe Lannert: What's hard? What's weird? I know we've had a few other people join since we 1st did the little intros. But if you want to drop in the chat, if you haven't already if you've raised any money prior to techstars the approximate timeline you're looking at raising.
Chloe Lannert: and then also feel free to unmute. If you have any any questions or sort of direction here.
Chloe Lannert: Harvest. I know you guys are. Yeah, Alex.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I think one of the things that I was looking for and you started touching upon in that. But like, what are the things that we shouldn't accept that are like non. You know what I think we should pay attention to. Of course there's a few things that we already know, like liquidation preference. If they're higher than 1, 1 is probably standard, if it's higher than one, then we should pay attention to it. Are there any things you talked about like the board seats. Are there any other things we we need to pay extra careful attention to.
David Ambler: I mean it could take us a lot of directions. I don't know, Mike, if anything pops out of you.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of stuff I see. So the board is a big one. The protective provisions oftentimes in the term sheet. They'll say something like standard Mvca protected provisions. Those are known as the blocking rights. So that's something that would require majority preferred stockholders to approve.
Mike Pestana: What I always say is in the term sheet. You really want to spell those out and know what they are, because they can throw in some obscure ones. Once you're drafting the docs so definitely want to get clarity in your protective revisions. Founder vesting is kind of a big one.
Mike Pestana: So oftentimes they'll be like, hey? I want you to reinvest your stock, and that should be negotiated the term sheet stage. It shouldn't be pop up later.
Mike Pestana: you know. There are maybe some other ones that are a little more bespoke to like different companies. I think. My well, there's 1, i would say that's
Mike Pestana: personal to me. I I often try to negotiate around the blocking right on raising future cash. So this is non standard. But in the Mvc forms you have to get the consent of the majority of the preferred stockholders to approve future financing.
Mike Pestana: I find that ethically dubious. I don't think that's right. I think the founders should be able to raise the money they want to raise. So we usually do when we have leverage is, we say, Well, if we do, an up round, and it's an institutional up round. Then we can raise without the consent of the majority of the preferred stockholders. That's a little more in the weeds, but it's something to think about. There's another one, founders asking about a lot which is like the sale of my business. What if I raise venture capital? Then I become sort of a
Mike Pestana: like a normal business. It doesn't need more venture, and we're like 10 years down the line I want to sell. I don't want my venture back
Mike Pestana: people to block my sale of my company. You can draft around that. And I, if when you have leverage, we see that sometimes.
Mike Pestana: And
Mike Pestana: there's definitely a lot more things to get into in terms of like things you shouldn't accept. So the best rule is, hire a lawyer. I guess.
David Ambler: I I'd say to just on like protect provisions where I we've seen it for years, but I see investors asking a lot for like hiring and firing executives, changing the business line like things that I consider to be operational. So any any sort of operational covenants where
David Ambler: people are getting a block over something where I'd say like, Hey, listen! They're trying to grow the business and hire like, why do you have a block over sort of like day to day level activities. I get it if it's economic in nature related to their shares or selling the company, but that that's usually a no, no, for me, I'd say another one to be aware of, too, that doesn't often get addressed in term sheet. Sometimes it does just on your board seats like how you keep them, how you lose them. Right?
David Ambler: So it comes up a lot. And this is not that interesting or not that different. But you know, do you have to be providing services like that? That definitely goes both ways like I, just for a company that's gonna do an Ipo next year had to like the board, pulled me in to remove a founder from the board, who was fighting with the other 2 founders, and we had to figure out like how to get the founder off the board, who was truly toxic.
David Ambler: very, very rare where this happens, especially for a company that was basically crushing it. But it does happen. And I and I know you all. I'm sure you know worried about horror stories of getting forced off the board. Very, very rare.
David Ambler: but just in terms of how you keep your seat. Are you named? Is it services? If there's, you know, dual class stock. Is it a class BC class A/C again, if there's a 2 v 2 board and they're they're suggesting there's an independent. How does the independency get filled. Could it be the CEO that designates it? And then there's some other approval after that. So there's a lot of nuance around this. But.
David Ambler: you know, I'd I'd say control at the early stage is super important because you're only gonna you're only gonna lose more as you do more rounds.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I would double. I would double click on that. You're only gonna lose more. So get as much as you can. Early.
David Ambler: Anyone else have questions.
David Ambler: Antoine?
antoinecarriere: Yeah, yeah. So so the the points you were making, Mike, were all to to put in the rights of 1st refusal and Post Sale Agreement Category.
antoinecarriere: Okay?
Mike Pestana: Yeah, that's right. Yeah, yeah. Ray, raising more money
Mike Pestana: and a sales company. Those are the 2 big ones.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so that's that's basically at your your point, just to make sure I got it right is
antoinecarriere: the. It's it's fair, I mean, it's kind of totally acceptable to attempt to negotiate an absence of right of 1st refusal when the the round is an up round and and on the the co-sell agreement. It's totally fair if you're in a position of strength to
antoinecarriere: not agree to a need for the the preferred stockholders to accept a sale of the company.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I'd say
Mike Pestana: it's definitely non market, and people will be surprised. They'll be like, kind of taken aback by it. So if you do want to be aggressive on those terms. I think it's important to like, be upfront and be like, Hey, we're gonna go unique on this. But yeah, I mean, basically, you're saying is, like, if I do enough round, you can't block me. And if I sell the company, usually, if we say something like if we sell the company, and we at least return your capital, or we 2 exit, or
Mike Pestana: like a multiple often, then you can't block us. Now in practice, like I've never even used that provision. It's just there is a backup but I think gives, you know, peace of mind.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, okay, thank thank you. And and we're talking about kind of
antoinecarriere: hypotheticals. And I think if you're if I understand the point you were making earlier is at the end of the day. You're kind of with these investors for the long run, and so you'd better choose your investors carefully and make sure that you get along with them, and that your interests are somewhat aligned, because
antoinecarriere: kind of. There are situations in which the interests are just, not aligned contractually. And and what do you do in these cases? You'd better have kind of
antoinecarriere: a good, a good set of investors, so it's not about kind of playing them, playing you you against them with the. It's just kind of
antoinecarriere: to your point, understanding what is the standard language to use and what is standard to do in order to understand. Go, go with their eyes wide open.
Mike Pestana: Exactly. And what I say, too, is like with institutional investors. People change. It's like the person you're working with there could leave the fund, and then you get somebody else you don't know. So that's like another reason to invest, to negotiate aggressively.
David Ambler: Yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: I oh, sorry!
David Ambler: Ahead. Anchor.
Ankur Toshniwal: I had a quick question. About anti dilution protective rights. So when it comes to kind of either bringing on new like, potentially like
Ankur Toshniwal: founder level equity even later in the company, or just like large sums of money that we like, we think is important to bring on the right people. When does anti dilution kind of like rights? Protective rights come in? The reason I ask is, we're not sure yet, but you know it's possible that we're
Ankur Toshniwal: we might be looking for like a 3, rd like co-founder who's might be in the larger side of equity. And that, you know, is something that we're considering. So I want to know, like, Hey, as are we gonna get blocked from doing that because it would you know it might not be a part of the option pool then? Right and which is why I was wondering if it's outside of the option pool. Where do we? Where do we get blocked?
David Ambler: Yeah, it's usually carved out for any dilution. So I wouldn't worry about that. Service providers. You know, usually raising debt. And you issue warrants to the, you know, debt holder, and things like that. So you usually what the preferred is worried about are non service providers, non commercial transactions.
David Ambler: So ie. Raising money through obviously another investment. Oh.
Ankur Toshniwal: I see. I see. I mean, okay. Thank you.
David Ambler: To your point, though, to take that a step further, though, like where it could come up is, if the investor disagrees with how many shares you want to give like they could just say, Well, there's not a common authorized in the charter. I'm going to block that, and I have a right to block common increases in the charter. So there's a bunch of ways to get at that right where they.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, so.
David Ambler: Section, so yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: So, yeah, is that like a a real concern is that they.
David Ambler: Yes, it is.
Ankur Toshniwal: Of all right. So when it comes.
David Ambler: Great.
Ankur Toshniwal: If they, you're right, if they disagree. And so when it comes to
Ankur Toshniwal: thinking about I guess like protection around that. Obviously, okay, is it something that you know you'd we'd want to even consider thinking about? Or it's like, Hey, we just need to talk to our investors and
Ankur Toshniwal: get them in alignment and prove to them that this is the right decision. I just, you know,
Ankur Toshniwal: hypotheticals, I guess, but I don't know how often it app happens. But I would assume that you know, companies do do make changes early in in the in the game, especially with when it comes to founders and bringing the right people on is important. So
David Ambler: It's it's not like a growing company that has, like a technical Co founder founder, let's call it, and they don't want to be the CEO like just everything's amicable, and they have to hire a new CEO right professional, CEO, like how much do you give them? And then, who has control over what the vote is to.
Ankur Toshniwal: Yeah, exactly.
David Ambler: Right?
David Ambler: Exactly. Yeah, yeah.
David Ambler: it's not unlike that. And like, I think at the end of the day it'd be pretty rare for you guys not to be on the same page. If you're not on the same page, something's broken that said, you want to be in a position of having flexibility to apply a little pressure. Right?
David Ambler: That's always
David Ambler: helpful if they just have a flat block over doing something that puts you in a bad spot. Maybe versus like, if you knew this, I mean, we should. If there's specifics here we should talk offline. But if you knew this was going to happen like, maybe we have a big buffer of common in the charter, so at least they don't have a block over that, and then it's just going to a board, though, which you control like. That's a much better position to be in. I mean, there are still things to consider fiduciary duty issues, and whatever. But I think just setting yourself up to have flexibility is definitely important.
Ankur Toshniwal: Cool, alright. Thank you.
David Ambler: Anyone else have questions happy to cover more here. But.
Chloe Lannert: Founders feel free to just like thumbs down, or whatever if this isn't relevant. But, David, you mentioned sort of changes to founder, vesting. What does that look like? This is me being unfamiliar.
David Ambler: Mike, do you want to take that one.
Mike Pestana: Like, what? What would revesting look like?
Mike Pestana: Yeah. Yeah. So so usually, when you said a company, either you have no vesting, or if you do investing. It's like 4 years, one year cliff like pretty common. So like, let's say you've been at it for like a year. You probably be like. Oh, I don't want to revest again like a 4 year. One year cliff setup so oftentimes like in that scenario. Let's say you've been at it for a year. You the series C term sheet.
Mike Pestana: I'd say there's like 2 routes, one you don't revest at all. You just keep going 2. If you do revest. You get rid of the cliff and you say, Okay, I'll revest. But I'm investing monthly over a 4 year period, starting as a closing. There's another prong where I'd say you go more bespoke, and you say something like, well, I should. I should invest a certain percentage like, let's say, 6 months worth of shares like 12.5, but the rest will be monthly.
Mike Pestana: Once you get into that last prong of like bespoke, I'd say it's pretty unique per founder, and like per situation. Like most of the time, your argument is like, I want credit for time. I've spent working on the company and the investors. Argument is like, we want to make sure you stick with the company, you know, until liquidity.
Mike Pestana: Which would be, you know, far beyond 4 years for for most companies.
Mike Pestana: So I'd say, usually founders I work with, except revesting at the series. Seed stage
Mike Pestana: if we have leverage, maybe it's like 3 years. If we don't have leverage, it's like 4 years.
David Ambler: Yeah. And I would say, I just got down with any like A AI company financing where the vesting wasn't a problem like they. They didn't think the founders were too vested. They didn't like the terms of the vesting, I will say, like we've seen more and more companies try to get cute with like what acceleration looks like. And what if I'm forced out? And it was within 6 months versus 12 months, and
David Ambler: investors are very focused on that. So certainly, if you've gone into the to the building, the company, with no vesting like, you know, you're going to get hit with Re with a revesting like I would say, it's not impossible. But like it's, you know, it's automatic. You're going to get in a conversation about it.
David Ambler: and if you try to mess with acceleration, either single or double. You know investors care a lot about that because their lawyers care about that and and raise all the potential red flags.
antoinecarriere: And so so what is typical in terms of
antoinecarriere: for founders. So again, the hypothetical scenario is, the founders have common stock. They only have like one investor, that is an accelerator. They are raising their 1st round of
antoinecarriere: their 1st price round. Is it going to be like 50% of their shares are going to be revested, or is what? What's what's typical here at this point.
Mike Pestana: I think it varies a lot like I think what I what I feel I see probably most commonly is revesting monthly over 4 years. If we're talking about like
Mike Pestana: of a company that's been around for like a year or something.
Mike Pestana: if you've been around for more than a year, yeah, sometimes you see something like that where you you say, well, 50% of the shares are vested as of the closing, and the remaining 50% are over 4 years. Something like that.
Mike Pestana: But yeah, once you get into like the customized vesting schedules. It's pretty unique, like per company, because everyone has, like a different story about why they should or should not be revested over a certain period, but it usually comes down to like how long you've been working on the company.
antoinecarriere: Okay? And so so if the company is really young, like, it's been incorporated 2 months ago.
antoinecarriere: And the the founders haven't worked on that. What you're saying is, in the case of a price. Round 100% of the shares are listed over 4 years.
antoinecarriere: would you? Would you? Would? You would not be surprised by that.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, that sounds right. It's only 2.
David Ambler: I mean, you can obviously ask for more. Right? Like you could start out with the presumption that 3 months are vested, or even 6 months are vested because you started thinking about this even before formation. Right? I sometimes will see investors even before they've looked at vesting. No more than 25% is vested in the term sheet. One of the Vcs I represent has that in the term sheet it's no more than 25% will be vested. We will control the preferred stock. They'll have a bunch of assumptions.
David Ambler: But I just, I think, be reasonable, because the second we start negotiating with Vcs about your what your investing is like. If you try to be too aggressive at the outset, at least in my experience, you almost end up always end up worse off than if you just try to choose something reasonable.
antoinecarriere: And and just for my for my knowledge. This seems to me like something that has been in the past 10 years invest kind of. I wasn't familiar with that with that kind of automatic revesting
antoinecarriere: of. And so so how is how did we get there? Because I totally see the logic. I think it makes a ton of sense, but it feels very, very aggressive, because initially kind of the it basically says
antoinecarriere: you are, we are re deciding the the shareholding structure at the time of the 1st price round.
David Ambler: Yeah, I I mean, it's I think it's been going on longer than that. I I'd say I mean, at least from from my purview. But
David Ambler: but listen, I think all they're all they care about is that you're incentivized to stay, and for the period of time they think it takes to build the company. That's all they care about right? And so if you're 40% vested, you can make every excuse in the book we've been working on this 2 years. I didn't get paid. Whatever it is they're gonna go. We we respect all that. That's why we're investing in you. But respectfully, we have to have reasonable vesting like that's always going to be the answer.
antoinecarriere: Okay. Okay. Okay. Thanks.
Mike Pestana: And if if you're interested in the history of it, too, like there's a book called Vc. In American history that goes into like how Vc. Terms have changed over time, and they they used to be crazy onerous like Vc. Terms. Back in the day when, like Ben Rock was, Rockefeller was like starting to do this stuff like in the eighties, and even like the seventies and sixties, were insane, and the valuations were rock bottom. So if you want to feel better about how things are today, it's a really, it's a really good book.
Mike Pestana: I recommend it.
antoinecarriere: Thank you.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: I say, just 1 1 like boring point on this page. Information rights? One thing I've seen investors, I mean, investors have had this for a long time, but rights over approving your budget, even if you don't have audited financials.
David Ambler: can seem fairly customary, and I don't think this is something you should die on the hill over. But
David Ambler: if you give the investors the right to block your budget that includes things to the question before over hiring a new founder like they could theoretically block the budget because they don't agree to pay somebody what you're paying them right?
David Ambler: They can block it for any reason. And that's a stockholder. Right? That's not a board right? As stockholders. They have no fiduciary duty to do that for a good justification. So usually the budget approvals are at the stockholder level. So again, like this is not something the Vcs monkey around with very much. But, like we have. I've seen that used on the stockholder side to apply pressure in situations where you wouldn't think you would need to be applied. So
David Ambler: you know. I I see that get negotiated every once in a while, mostly because I look for it, and I've I've seen it used as a hammer. So just beware.
Mike Pestana: Well, also, if if you guys have any other questions on this call to feel free to reach out to us separately, too, especially if it's, you know, something that's more confidential. We're happy to do. One offs.
David Ambler: Yeah.
David Ambler: I'd say to just running through this, maybe the last substance slide. I want to hit just silo terms. I won't cover all these because people's brains will go down. But I'd say, for a typical Vc, like some of these are just kind of out there, or it's for strategic, for a typical Vc, I'd say, like major investor status gets asked for enough.
David Ambler: which is the right usually to participate pro rata and a financing or get information rights. I care less so about the information rights and more so about preemptive rights, especially if it says something like, even if the other investors, and we all agree. It's a majority of the preferred stock who gets to decide whether we're going to waive the pro rata right on behalf of all other investors.
David Ambler: Even if the documents say that my side letter says if you waive it, and then let other major investors participate, you have to let me participate. So there's there's things like that that pop up in these docs again under the purview of this is a standard side letter. Some of some of these I care more about than others like. That's 1 where you know. You should talk about. Obviously, super Parada, let's say less common, or what you might. But that's those are 2 that would jump out at me.
David Ambler: That's at least being something we should discuss.
Mike Pestana: MF. Ends oddly can come up in in, on in strange ways. So most of your nation's clause means you have to give the same terms to the current investor that you give to a future investor. If they're better. So sometimes you'll have a situation where, like you have an advisor or something, or someone who gets like
Mike Pestana: like preferential terms, basically to their investment. For like strategic commercial reasons, Mfns can be a block or and can hamper that because you'd have to go back and give those same pre preferential terms to your prior investors. So that's the other way. I would.
Mike Pestana: It's kind of a sleeper, but it comes up.
David Ambler: Happy to chat about anything else, to have folks still have questions about financings or otherwise.
David Ambler: or what can go wrong.
Chris Wong: I have a completely separate question. It's around funding and and that kind of vehicle. I was curious. If you guys have any recommendations or thoughts around. Like I heard there are 3rd party providers that could help you facilitate those.
Mike Pestana: Oh!
Chris Wong: And like you can wrap them in into kind of like vehicles, and then they like the crowdfunders, all vote along kind of like the lines, as like, you know, or they differ, or they proxy. They give the the CEO the proxy, to vote on behalf of them. Or, Yeah, I'm not sure if you have any like color on, you know crowdfunding, and how common that is, too, and
Chris Wong: if it's recommended at this very early stage, or if if we want to do something like that, yeah.
David Ambler: I might have my own thoughts unless you feel, yeah.
Mike Pestana: I mean, just straight up. Crowdfunding is really looked down upon by venture capital like it's really not like a good look for most companies there are like some examples of like really successful, like tech, or mostly consumer brands that have done crowdfunding successfully and become like giant companies. But those are like really rare examples.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, I mean, there's there's like, I think that's like micro ventures. Maybe it's called. There's, I think, out of Texas. There's a couple of these places that will help you facilitate crowdfunding. I've actually done one back in the day when they 1st approved it, and it was a total mass.
Mike Pestana: It's
Mike Pestana: yeah, I mean, it's hard. And you have a ton of stakeholders. And even if you're a proxy, you can get involved with like,
Mike Pestana: having a ton of stockholders in the cap table.
Mike Pestana: But like bottom line advice is that if you're looking to invest, looking to receive like Vc. Style investment. I think crowdfunding is a huge negative on the cap table.
David Ambler: Yeah, agreed.
Mike Pestana: Got it.
Mike Pestana: There is like product crowdfunding, which I've seen. Be successful for consumer products where you're just like you're not selling equity. But you're selling like the product, you know, before you actually launch it, that, I think, is in a different category that I'm like, if you sell, you know, you're selling a consumer product, and people prepay you for it, and you get revenue from that. That's like another. But that's different than like equity crowdfunding, which is probably what you meant.
Chris Wong: Yep.
Chris Wong: Got it.
Chris Wong: Thanks.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Antoine.
antoinecarriere: Is it? Is it?
antoinecarriere: Should we be thinking about Spvs for safe investment, or is it delete? I think an Spv costs like 6 to $8,000. If you use canopy or some some sort of a
antoinecarriere: system like that.
antoinecarriere: just to kind of to- to go around the problems you were mentioning earlier on, you're safe is going to have like a bunch of people in it. And
antoinecarriere: so is is that kind of the the smart thing to do, although it's a little bit more expensive or.
Mike Pestana: So, yeah, I mean, it's interesting. So people definitely do that like, I've I've invested in a lot of companies through Angellist Spv, and it's like when you're putting in small amounts. It's kind of like expected. Like, you're not going to be individual stockholder.
Mike Pestana: for most companies are probably raising between 10 and 20 saves. So it's like not worth the hassle. If you're talking about like 50 saves, maybe it starts becoming worth it, especially if it's like 8,000 or $10,000 or something. You do want to make sure everyone's an accredited investor and bunch of other things, too, and end of the day. Somebody has to manage it. To like somebody has to be in charge of the Spv. But, like Angel List, is a pretty good function for setting that up. If you want to do that.
Chloe Lannert: You have any thoughts on those crowdfunding sites that do not require you to be an accredited investor. I've heard some weird, weird stuff recently.
Mike Pestana: That that is interesting.
Chloe Lannert: An Spv that doesn't check.
Mike Pestana: It doesn't check. Well, I mean, look okay. If you're the stockholder, it doesn't really matter to you, because if you're if you're not accredited investor, and you get money into a private company. You don't have another securities. Law, exemption. You, by the by, you probably do have another securities, law, exemption you could fall under. But like, let's say you just don't.
Mike Pestana: You have recourse against the company to basically get your money back one day.
Mike Pestana: you have like the right to say, like I wasn't accredited. I didn't get the information I needed to make this investment and whatever. And then, technically, the Sec. Could bring something, but they probably won't, for like a $10,000 investment. So the risk is really like on the company, not on the investor.
Mike Pestana: Sounds sketchy, though I don't think I'd want that was
Mike Pestana: you have to explain to a Vc. One day, if you want to be a billion dollar company you have to raise a ton of Vc capital usually, unless you're very, very smart and very crafty so all this kind of stuff you have to explain to them. And like, if you're like, I use this sketchy, crowdfunding site, they're gonna be like, alright, that's hard for us to accept.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, periodically, you have an alum resurface with some really odd plans.
Mike Pestana: Yeah. And then you get to like, I mean, this is not what's gonna happen, but like there are like sanctions and what's called Cfius for Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. If you're taking money from like countries that are like pseudo friends of the United States, or even enemies like, you know, mainland China, or parts of Russia, I mean.
Mike Pestana: you know, it can get it. You can have a $10,000 investment from somebody in Russia, and then the Vc. Gets spooked or something, and you have to explain. It takes like 2 weeks to get them on board with it. And there's all kinds of wacky stuff like that. Which is unfortunate for Russian citizens. By the way, I think they get a raw deal, but that's just the reality of it.
David Ambler: Hmm! That's
David Ambler: I'd say, too, just on foreign investors generally, if you're going to have a foreign investor, even like a strategic like sap right sapphire like there's investors out there who you might not think have foreign investor issues like Cfius. You definitely need to get in front of that. And usually they know it, but it can be a long pull.
Chloe Lannert: And or a block.
Chloe Lannert: Everyone check your week, one or pre-programm to do list. There are a bunch of Cfius docs prepped by techstars that you've all looked at.
Chloe Lannert: So, Antoine?
Chloe Lannert: The answer is, there in the decks.
David Ambler: Yeah.
antoinecarriere: I mean, we're good friends, is a friend.
Mike Pestana: Exactly. It's true.
Mike Pestana: France is easier from a Cfius perspective.
David Ambler: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Hmm.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, tax tax evasions is not a good idea.
Mike Pestana: Very difficult, I'm sure.
Chloe Lannert: Anything else.
Mike Pestana: Cool. Well, we're, you know, thanks for having us. And like, yeah, like, I said, like, if you have a confidential thing you want to talk about, happy to, you know. Do do one off conversations.
Chloe Lannert: This is killer. We've had so many of these like small questions popping up over the course of the last few weeks, so really really grateful for you guys for taking the time to dig through.
Mike Pestana: Yeah.
David Ambler: Just one plug, too. I'd say it's our techstars materials, but we obviously have in there. We do fix these for safe. I mean, sometimes it's free. If it's just like, send us form and update the valuation cap. But we do fix fees for those and same thing on on venture financing. So if you guys, no matter who your council is.
David Ambler: I would I would recommend you, ask for that like fees have gotten wild and like even for Mike, and I like. It's painful on our side, too. It's just the way of the world. So you have power to negotiate. If whoever your counsel is, you should be negotiating that, not asking for estimates, because those estimates were very sneaky about saying, Well, it's 2 times the amount because of the following 20 reasons.
David Ambler: and you find yourself in kind of an odd spot. So just put that out there.
Mike Pestana: Yeah, if you have other friends who work with other lawyers like this is like a classic story of being like, oh, it's gonna cost like $5,000, and it's like 15,000 like poly. Since we don't do that, we just tell you what the cap is on the deal.
Chloe Lannert: And verify that the last class has had that experience. Where it's like this is, this is what I need. This is how much it'll cost receives the document 2 days later, and that's actually what it cost.
Chloe Lannert: I've heard only nominal things from everyone who's worked with y'all.
David Ambler: Appreciate it.
Mike Pestana: It's great!
Chloe Lannert: Alright!
David Ambler: Everyone. Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Last few for the founders. Bye, Mike, bye, David, thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Please do revamp your pitches like drop your pitch script in basecamp. I have a little
Chloe Lannert: update on the let me just pull it up real quick
Chloe Lannert: on the demo day invites.
Chloe Lannert: I'm just gonna show you real quick, but just like a written recap of what we need here. Here's a spreadsheet like we need a spreadsheet of the people you want to invite to Demo day. This is like we need some help crafting the audience to make sure it's the people you actually want to speak to the people who are the highest value. I've made a template. So it's super easy for you guys to just get all the information you need. You can look for these people anywhere
Chloe Lannert: but the Texters universe entrepreneur and investor directories will have a little bit higher of a conversion rate, and I'll be able to pull contact details on the back end. If it's someone who's not in those databases, you can use Hunter I/O, or like Apollo, or whatever to scrape emails. But this can literally be any anyone.
Chloe Lannert: these are for people you're not already close enough with to directly invite them yourself. So if there's anyone you're directly inviting yourself one absolutely do that to make sure I know about it, like the format isn't super important with this, but make sure I just receive a ping with like a name like so and so. Yes, Demo Day, that's all I need to make sure they get approved on the Luma once they've registered.
Chloe Lannert: and they're not like hanging, and you're not texting me the day before, after all, the badges are printed and Google's mad at me trying to get them in. Just let me know.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, friends and family also. Please invite them at this stage. If you want to bring your people, if they're local.
Chloe Lannert: All of the founders are already on the list and do not need to register. We are assuming that all of the people who, like filled out the class roster form your co-founders. Whatever are there? If you have other employees or team members that you want at Demo Day that I haven't met.
Chloe Lannert: tell me, and we'll make sure that they
Chloe Lannert: their information gets where it needs to go.
Chloe Lannert: We'd love to have this list by end of day Monday. Just so. People have enough time to plan. The note that people will receive who you're not like already familiar with is just like a hey? We'd love to have you join us a demo day, we think you should take a look at this company. They seem pretty cool, and seem pretty aligned to what you're doing. It's like from us from the techstars team telling them to take a look at you.
Chloe Lannert: and then you can, of course, reach out again closer to Demo day do your own outreach outside of that. But it's just like we're trying to give you the little social proof of being like, Hey, this is techstars. Look at our company.
Chloe Lannert: Any questions, comments, concerns.
Anthony De Silva: Like is this like people without refined in techstars, universe or
Chloe Lannert: Yes, so you can find these people
Chloe Lannert: investor, entrepreneur, directories and universe, but also like random people on Linkedin, who you think are cool. The one caveat is, try to keep it Bay Area based, unless you know or like West Coast, unless you know that they travel frequently. Since these are cold people like our established mentors, and like Investor List, there are people who will fly on that list
Chloe Lannert: like I've invited people who have, like bought plane tickets to come to this. If it's someone who hasn't heard from me before. Odds that they're gonna fly out are very low. So just be conscious of that.
Anthony De Silva: So like, look for a mut- mutual connection, or in the list, or.
Chloe Lannert: This doesn't need to be a mutual connection.
Anthony De Silva: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: Conversion will be higher if it's a mutual connection. But basically, I'm gonna cold email people on your behalf as tech stars being like, hey? You seem like a cool tech person. We have some cool tech companies. You should look at them.
Chloe Lannert: The email comes from me. It's like, Hi, I'm Chloe with techstars. You should come to our demo day and look at this company.
Anthony De Silva: Got it cool. Thanks.
Chloe Lannert: Clear
Chloe Lannert: good questions, comments, concerns, list by Monday. So you can talk to the people you want to talk to in the audience.
Chloe Lannert: Killer
Chloe Lannert: alright.
antoinecarriere: Chloe, just quick question for the for the
antoinecarriere: So our pitch is not finished. But you do want a draft, because
antoinecarriere: look looking at Base camp, it said, like the final pitch, to submit the final pitch, so
antoinecarriere: not the fact.
antoinecarriere: The beach.
Chloe Lannert: This is a separate folder. This is the pitch practice folder.
antoinecarriere: Oh, okay, so.
Chloe Lannert: Can you just.
antoinecarriere: Sure. Sure, since your screen is on, just just make sure.
Chloe Lannert: So we go to the Hq.
Chloe Lannert: We go Demo Day Demo day submissions. This is the official stuff we want pitch practice.
antoinecarriere: Oh, pitch practice. Nothing like that. Okay? Okay.
Chloe Lannert: We meet tomorrow morning, and then this is like the the v 1 stuff.
antoinecarriere: Okay, okay, thank you. I was on Demo Day.
antoinecarriere: Cool.
Chloe Lannert: And the like iteration loop there is take, take on the notes that you have from the previous 2 days, and drop your script. And then Neil and I and all of you guys should be sharing feedback over the course of the next day or so. So you have more time to make final touches. For the demo day practices with Neil on Monday, where you'll each have a 1 on one slot with Neil to sit down and work through your entire set.
Chloe Lannert: So that's pitch video and Q&A.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, thank, you.
Chloe Lannert: Also, we should have eir assignments out Monday fingers crossed, and you'll be able to start working with your eir more
Chloe Lannert: more consistently schedule. Some practices start sharing the scripts with them, and getting Async and synchronous feedback.
antoinecarriere: Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful, all right bye, all.
Anthony De Silva: So.